# This is fine... (really) - Kiro

Source: https://kiro.dev/blog/this-is-fine-really/

---

Back to all postsJuly 24, 2025This is fine... (really)ByMAMassimo Re FerreProductIt’s been a whirlwind week for Kiro, our new agentic IDE. More than 100k developers have used it within the first week of preview, with even more on the waitlist. Those of you who have already gotten your hands on Kiro have loved it and you exceeded our expectations. We haven’t only been impressed by the number of users, but also by what you all have managed to build already.While we tested Kiro a lot internally, we knew it would never be successful without feedback from the community. That’s why we launched it in preview— to gather feedback, learn, iterate, and improve. We knew we were on to something with specs and agent hooks but the one thing we underestimated was just how quickly you all would take to Kiro. We thought we would hit our preview capacity over the course of a few months, but we hit it in just a few days. That has led to some bottlenecks for users, which isn’t the experience we want, whether you’re using Kiro for the first time or the 50th time. This is why we implemented a temporary waitlist on new Kiro signups and now we’re iterating to incorporate the feedback we’re getting and refine the experience before we add more preview users.If you’re using Kiro today, keep sending us feedback so we can make it better for everyone. If you’re on the waitlist, we’re working hard to get Kiro ready for even more of you.Until then, join us on Discord where we will be sharing updates. We’re working to improve everything about Kiro! We have a bunch of exciting updates on the horizon, and we’re planning to open up to more users soon. Stay tuned.Loading image...This image was shared by a member of the Kiro community made with ChatGPT.{PREVIOUS}Automate your development workflow with Kiro’s AI agent hooks{NEXT}Kiro pricing update + waitlist invites coming soon